\subsection{Communicating with Singapore - Agree to disagree}
\label{sec:communicating}
%rephrase intro It is commonly understood that different cultures have
%different norms Less widely known, but well documented, are the difficulties
%the cultural differences impose on inter-cultural collaboration

Immediately at the first meeting with the SMU team, the first hint of cultural
differences presented itself in the form of Hofstede's first dimension of
culture\cite{surprises}. The SMU team wanted to know who the team leader of SWU
team was. This was something the SWU team had not discussed, or even
considered, as they were used to acting in small group democracies.
In fact, the SWU contact person was chosen only shortly before the meeting,
and with an air of necessity rather than desire.

For a while, the cultural differences seemed negligible, but as the project
progressed communication between the two teams became increasingly troublesome.
More than once it got to the point where one SWU team member felt it necessary
to put down his foot\cite{enough}. The SWU'ers perceived a tendency in the SMU
team; the SMU'ers would seemingly agree to proposals from the SWU team, but
would then turn on it later. This tendency is illustrated by a couple of
examples:

During the first meeting, a second meeting was arranged for two days later. Not
long after, the SMU team announced that they would not be able to make the
agreed appointment, and proposed to meet the following Saturday instead.
Despites the verbally unambiguous agreement however, the SWU team's
representatives held Saturdays meeting alone. [Reference needed]

Another example of apparent agreement: Shortly after having mutually expressed
agreement on the API of the web service (and thereby the supported requirements
for the SWU client) the SMU team started requesting API support for features
already described in the shared documents. [reference needed] Indicated that
the SMU'ers either had not read, or not been able to understand, the technical
specification document supplied by the SWU team.

Approaching the SMU team's deadline, the SWU'ers had their easter holidays.
This wasn't exactly a surprise, and the SWU'ers had tried, and thought they had
succeeded, to cement the service-requirements so only actual implementation
work, demanding little to no communication, was left for the holidays. The
SMU'ers however, had planned differently. Due to having deadlines for other
projects early in the process, they had delayed finalizing their requirements,
and announced most of their change requests in this period. This resulted in
great stress for both the SWU'ers, who had made plans for the holidays, and for
the SMU'ers, who became increasingly anxious they might not make their deadline.

The possibility that these disagreements are unrelated to cultural differences
between the teams, and hence are products of dislike or indifference must be
explored: The SWU team agrees that the SMU team's emails, Facebook messages,
and appearance during meetings generally showed a positive demeanor. That, and
the explicitly expressed wish to collaborate with the SWU team, even when
facing disagreement makes this explanation unlikely. (see appendix
\ref{app:robertsletter})

Let us explore the possibility of cultural differences acting as catalyst for
misunderstanding. In some cultures, (commonly in Asia) public disagreement is
somewhat stigmatized (Hall's fifth dimension of culture\cite{surprises})
\cite{herbsiemens}, and rather than explicitly saying \emph{"no"} the SMU team
might have, subtly, as perceived by western standards, hinted a reluctance that
the other team was expected to, but did not know to, react on.

