\subsection{Client Design}

When designing the client we first looked through the requirements (listed in
Section \ref{sec:requirements}) to decide which features would need to be
developed in the client. Most features had root in the server but required a
layer in the client as well, and a few were to be developed in the client only.
A few requirements were not implemented in the service, and were hence dropped
for the client (see Section \ref{sec:futureimps}).

\textbf{Re: Above. Er der nogen requirements der kun er lavet i klienten? Ellers
revider ovenfor.}

After prioritizing the list of features, we developed it into a list of views,
each view representing something a user of the client would see (see Appendix
\ref{app:client-views}). Each feature was not necessarily exactly one view (most
views contained several features).

For example, the \textbf{Manager overview} view were to provide "functionality
for uploading/creating new movies and songs", covering requirements 26 to 28.

We then implemented the views, feature by feature. This means that some views
were first developed in an \emph{incomplete} state, with the most highly
prioritized feature, and then later developed into the full planned view. We
chose not to try and have automated tests of the client, as it is pretty much
just a user interface, and testing user interfaces is tricky and a very
changeable field in software development.

\textbf{References!!!}

Only a single requirement caused an issue during development of the client:
demotion of managers to users and promotion the other way. As the feature
had a fairly low priority, the issue was not discovered until late in the
development process.

The issue arises because a manager has no way of getting a list of users. This
is neither supported in the service nor in the client (specifications and
implementations). Listing users is a required to access user profiles, which, in
turn, is required to de- or promote them.

This is a scary example of how bad requirements can result in huge problems much
later in development. Fixing the problem at this point would require changes to
the API specification and backend service on top of the already required changes
to the client.

\input{./p1design/client-technology}